docs: Nest SDK (#750)
open-feature/js-sdk: packages/nest/README.md

[OpenFeature](https://openfeature.dev) is an open specification that provides a vendor-agnostic, community-driven API
for feature flagging that works with your favorite feature flag management tool.

<!-- x-hide-in-docs-end -->

🧪 This SDK is experimental.

## Overview

> The OpenFeature NestJS SDK is a package that provides a NestJS wrapper for the [OpenFeature Server SDK](). It's main capabilities are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The OpenFeature NestJS SDK is a package that provides a NestJS wrapper for the [OpenFeature Server SDK]().

It's main capabilities are:
```
Looks like there's a link missing.

- Provide a NestJS global module to simplify OpenFeature configuration and usage within NestJS;
- Supply custom parameter decorators (for controllers), that inject observables with feature flags resolution details;
- Inject context for flag evaluation seamlessly using NestJS interceptors
- Provide decorators for OpenFeature Client injection into NestJS services and controllers
- TODO: map other features

## 🚀 Quick start

### Requirements

- Node.js version 16+

> - NestJS

Reviewer: Is there a minimum version?

Reviewer 2: This is probably a good question. If you can't identify a specific min version, I would suggest going back at least one version (maybe 2) and see if it works, then call that the min.

Reviewer 3: Actually we have it defined in peerDeps ("^8.0.0 || ^9.0.0 || ^10.0.0").
I think NestJS could be remove from this as it will be in the peerDeps table anyways and it seems doubled with this table.

Reviewer 2: I think for transparency it might be worth just putting 8+ here.

The other thing is maybe we should use no upper bound? I guess that's a risk if there's some related breaking change, but on the other hand, this means we'll have to quickly expand this with every major Nest version

Author: I agree. It's easier to just fix if any major version breaks it (and maybe pinning the max version) til it's compatible instead of updating on every release.

### Install

#### npm

```sh
npm install --save @openfeature/nestjs-sdk
```

#### yarn

```sh

> yarn add @openfeature/nestjs-sdk

Reviewer: Yarn unfortunately doesn't automatically install peer dependencies. Please make sure to list any extra dependencies that are required.

Reviewer 3: Could be something like this: https://github.com/open-feature/js-sdk-contrib/tree/main/libs/providers/config-cat#installation

Reviewer 3: @luizgribeiro What do you think?

Author: It's a nice alternative. I'll rewrite this

```

### Usage

> The example bellow shows how to use the `OpenFeatureModule` with OpenFeature's `InMemoryProvider`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The example below shows how to use the `OpenFeatureModule` with OpenFeature's `InMemoryProvider`.
```

[OpenFeature](https://openfeature.dev) is an open specification that provides a vendor-agnostic, community-driven API
for feature flagging that works with your favorite feature flag management tool.

<!-- x-hide-in-docs-end -->

🧪 This SDK is experimental.

## Overview

The OpenFeature NestJS SDK is a package that provides a NestJS wrapper for the [OpenFeature Server SDK]().

It's main capabilities are:
- Provide a NestJS global module to simplify OpenFeature configuration and usage within NestJS;
- Supply custom parameter decorators (for controllers), that inject observables with feature flags resolution details;
- Inject context for flag evaluation seamlessly using NestJS interceptors
- Provide decorators for OpenFeature Client injection into NestJS services and controllers

> - TODO: map other features

Reviewer 2: Do we want to remove this TODO?

Author: This is actually a reminder :sweat_smile:

@lukas-reining, is there anything else you think is worth adding to the docs at this point?
I'd say that from JSDocs + Readme it's pretty much all covered.

Reviewer 3: I think this is fine, maybe something like "No need to access the global OF api for configuring OF" might be cool but is not required.

Reviewer 3: Something like this @luizgribeiro: 

```suggestion
- Setting up logging, event handling, hooks and providers directly when registering the module
```

Reviewer 3: I think the semicolons at the end of the points are not needed but not 100% sure :)

[OpenFeature](https://openfeature.dev) is an open specification that provides a vendor-agnostic, community-driven API
for feature flagging that works with your favorite feature flag management tool.

<!-- x-hide-in-docs-end -->

🧪 This SDK is experimental.

## Overview

The OpenFeature NestJS SDK is a package that provides a NestJS wrapper for the [OpenFeature Server SDK](https://openfeature.dev/docs/reference/technologies/server/javascript/).

It's main capabilities are:

- Provide a NestJS global module to simplify OpenFeature configuration and usage within NestJS;

> - Supply custom parameter decorators (for controllers), that inject observables with feature flags resolution details;

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Injecting feature flags into directly controller route handlers
```

Reviewer 3: I think, this is more about the feature, so the addition that it is using Observables is an implementation detail.

> - Inject context for flag evaluation seamlessly using NestJS interceptors

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Injecting transaction evaluation context for flag evaluations directly from [execution context](https://docs.nestjs.com/fundamentals/execution-context) (HTTP header values, client IPs, etc.)
```

Reviewer 3: I would like to tell that execution context is the source so people familiar with Nest can see directly which information can be expected to be injectable  by the interceptor. I again think that the interceptor is just an implemenation detail.

> - Provide decorators for OpenFeature Client injection into NestJS services and controllers

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Injecting OpenFeature clients into NestJS services and controllers by using decorators
```

for feature flagging that works with your favorite feature flag management tool.

<!-- x-hide-in-docs-end -->

## Overview

The OpenFeature NestJS SDK is a package that provides a NestJS wrapper for the [OpenFeature Server SDK](https://openfeature.dev/docs/reference/technologies/server/javascript/).

It's main capabilities are:

- Provide a NestJS global module to simplify OpenFeature configuration and usage within NestJS;
- Injecting feature flags directly into controller route handlers by using decorators;
- Injecting transaction evaluation context for flag evaluations directly from [execution context](https://docs.nestjs.com/fundamentals/execution-context) (HTTP header values, client IPs, etc.);
- Injecting OpenFeature clients into NestJS services and controllers by using decorators;
- Setting up logging, event handling, hooks and providers directly when registering the module.

## 🚀 Quick start

### Requirements

- Node.js version 16+
- NestJS version 8+

### Install

#### npm

```sh
npm install --save @openfeature/nestjs-sdk
```

#### Required peer dependencies

The OpenFeature SDK is required as peer dependency.

> The minimum required version of `@openfeature/server-sdk` currently is `1.7.5`.

Reviewer 3: We are missing rxjs and Nest here.

Reviewer: Should `@nestjs/core` also be a peer dependency?

Reviewer 3: Yes, this slipped through when we added the interceptors, before we only had `@nestjs/common`.
I will add that @beeme1mr.

[OpenFeature](https://openfeature.dev) is an open specification that provides a vendor-agnostic, community-driven API
for feature flagging that works with your favorite feature flag management tool.

<!-- x-hide-in-docs-end -->

## Overview

The OpenFeature NestJS SDK is a package that provides a NestJS wrapper for the [OpenFeature Server SDK](https://openfeature.dev/docs/reference/technologies/server/javascript/).

> It's main capabilities are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Capabilities include:
```

- Provide a NestJS global module to simplify OpenFeature configuration and usage within NestJS;
- Injecting feature flags directly into controller route handlers by using decorators;
- Injecting transaction evaluation context for flag evaluations directly from [execution context](https://docs.nestjs.com/fundamentals/execution-context) (HTTP header values, client IPs, etc.);
- Injecting OpenFeature clients into NestJS services and controllers by using decorators;
- Setting up logging, event handling, hooks and providers directly when registering the module.

## 🚀 Quick start

### Requirements

- Node.js version 16+
- NestJS version 8+

### Install

#### npm

```sh
npm install --save @openfeature/nestjs-sdk
```

#### Required peer dependencies

The following list contains the peer dependencies of `@openfeature/nestjs-sdk` with it's expected and compatible versions:

> * `@openfeature/server-sdk`: >=1.7.5
> * `@nestjs/common`: ^8.0.0 || ^9.0.0 || ^10.0.0
> * `@nestjs/core`: ^8.0.0 || ^9.0.0 || ^10.0.0
> * `rxjs`: ^6.0.0 || ^7.0.0

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `@openfeature/server-sdk`: >=1.7.5
* `@nestjs/common`: ^8.0.0 || ^9.0.0 || ^10.0.0
* `@nestjs/core`: ^8.0.0 || ^9.0.0 || ^10.0.0
* `rxjs`: ^6.0.0 || ^7.0.0 || ^8.0.0
```

        testBooleanFlag: {
          defaultVariant: 'default',
          variants: { default: true },
          disabled: false,
        },
      }),
      providers: {
        differentProvider: new InMemoryProvider(),
      },
    }),
  ],
})
export class AppModule {}
```

> With the `OpenFeatureModule` configured it is now possible to inject flag evaluation details into route handlers like in the following code snippet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the `OpenFeatureModule` configured, it's possible to inject flag evaluation details into route handlers like in the following code snippet.
```

import { EvaluationDetails } from '@openfeature/server-sdk';
import { Request } from 'express';

@Controller()
export class OpenFeatureController {
  @Get('/welcome')
  public async welcome(
    @BooleanFeatureFlag({
      flagKey: 'testBooleanFlag',
      defaultValue: false,
    })

>       feature: Observable<EvaluationDetails<boolean>>,

Reviewer: Can this inject an observable instead of a promise? Personally, I don't love working with observables, especially if you're not dealing with a data stream.

FYI @lukas-reining

Reviewer 3: You mean a `Promise` instead of an `Observable` @beeme1mr?
I am fine with using a promise, but my feeling is that Nest.js tends more to use observables for such cases. (e.g. https://github.com/open-feature/js-sdk-contrib/tree/main/libs/providers/config-cat#installation)

Reviewer: haha, yeah.

Reviewer: Thinking about this a bit more, I'm not sure if there's a use case for injecting the value of an individual feature flag. It seems much more likely that a user would inject the client into the class.

Reviewer 3: @beeme1mr Ya that link was wrong, changed it😅

Regarding the feature:
I could imagine that e.g. changing if the endpoint should be "enabled" or changing the whole request would be interesting.

Author: I've already done something pretty similar to this at controller level changing from older to newer/refactored version. Even though I'm not a big fan of observables either, it might be useful.

Reviewer 3: @beeme1mr What do you think? I still feel Observables are the most idiomatic for Nest but if others are leaning more to Promises, I would be fine changing it.

Reviewer: I'm fine with using an Observable here. 👍

}
```

> It is also possible to inject the default and a named OpenFeature client into a service via it's constructor with Nest dependency injection system.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It is also possible to inject the default and named OpenFeature clients into a service via Nest dependency injection system.
```

Reviewer 2: I think "the default and named OpenFeature clients" should read "the default or named OpenFeature clients".

export class OpenFeatureTestService {
  constructor(
    @FeatureClient() private defaultClient: Client,
    @FeatureClient({ name: 'differentProvider' }) private namedClient: Client,
  ) {}

  public async getBoolean() {
    return await this.defaultClient.getBooleanValue('testBooleanFlag', false);
  }
}
```

## Module aditional information

### Flag evaluation context injection

> Whenever a flag evaluation occours, context can be provided with information like user e-mail, role, targeting key, etc in order to trigger specific evaluation rules or logic. The `OpenFeatureModule` provides a way to configure context for each request using the `contextFactory` option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Whenever a flag evaluation occurs, context can be provided with information like user e-mail, role, targeting key, etc in order to trigger specific evaluation rules or logic. The `OpenFeatureModule` provides a way to configure context for each request using the `contextFactory` option.
```

> The `contextFactory` is ran in a NestJS interceptor scope to configure the evaluation context and than it is used in every flag evaluation related to this request.

Reviewer 3: We should use `Nest`, `Nest.js` or `NestJS` consistently.
I would go with one of the first two.

Reviewer 2: Based on the docs, I see [NestJS](https://docs.nestjs.com/)

Reviewer 3: I would say there is even more `Nest`, but `NestJS` seems fine.
At least the second was wrong 😅

Reviewer 3: I would say there is even more `Nest`, but `NestJS` seems fine.
At least the second was wrong 😅

Reviewer 2: I mostly care that we're consistent.

Author: Alright, 

I'll keep using NestJS since the package is `@openfeature/nestjs-sdk`

export class OpenFeatureTestService {
  constructor(
    @FeatureClient() private defaultClient: Client,

>     @FeatureClient({ name: 'differentProvider' }) private namedClient: Client,

Reviewer 2: I think we should rename this to `OpenFeatureClient` before we remove the `experimental`. I think just `FeatureClient` is a bit disjointed, since we have tended to either add the entire "OpenFeature" prefix, or leave it off. I think `OpenFeatureClient` would be best, because the client inteface is called `Client` so it won't clash, and it's consistent with the equivalent in [react](https://github.com/open-feature/js-sdk/blob/main/packages/react/README.md#multiple-providers-and-scoping) (`</OpenFeatureProvider>`).

Reviewer 3: It has been `OpenFeatureClient` before, but [`OpenFeatureClient` is used for the implementation](https://github.com/open-feature/js-sdk/blob/3ad61cc0553c8f92eb512004001b6843e9208691/packages/server/src/client/open-feature-client.ts) of the `Client` and it is also exported from the Server SDK.

We could remove the export of `OpenFeatureClient` from the Web SDK, as no one should use and import this directly anyways I would say. I have seen it several times that this type was used instead of `Client` in projects.
If we remove this I would be happy calling the interface `OpenFeatureClient`here.

Reviewer 3: What do you think @toddbaert?

Reviewer 2: Sorry for the late reply - if we can remove that export, I'm fine with it!

Reviewer 3: Hey @toddbaert, removing this should be considered a breaking change I would say.
I am not sure how we want to continue on this then. What do you think?

Reviewer 2: hmm, well, if I understand correctly, it would be technically breaking, but I think it could be argued it was a misuse. All our doc recommends using the interface.

If we want to be really strict, we could consider it a break and include it with some others I have in mind in a 2.0.0 (meaning to ask you guys about this soon... there's a small list of breaking improvements I think might be worth considering)...

export class OpenFeatureTestService {
  constructor(
    @FeatureClient() private defaultClient: Client,
    @FeatureClient({ name: 'differentProvider' }) private namedClient: Client,
  ) {}

  public async getBoolean() {
    return await this.defaultClient.getBooleanValue('testBooleanFlag', false);
  }
}
```

## Module aditional information

### Flag evaluation context injection

Whenever a flag evaluation occurs, context can be provided with information like user e-mail, role, targeting key, etc in order to trigger specific evaluation rules or logic. The `OpenFeatureModule` provides a way to configure context for each request using the `contextFactory` option.
The `contextFactory` is ran in a NestJS interceptor scope to configure the evaluation context and than it is used in every flag evaluation related to this request.

> By default the interceptor is cofigured globally, but it can be changed by setting the `useGlobalInterceptor` to `false`. In this case it is still possible to configure a `contextFactory` that can be injected into route, module or controller bound interceptors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the interceptor is configured globally, but it can be changed by setting the `useGlobalInterceptor` to `false`. In this case, it is still possible to configure a `contextFactory` that can be injected into route, module or controller bound interceptors.
```
